[@astrojs/vercel] Individually enable Speed Insights and Web Analytics (#8021)
withastro/astro: packages/integrations/vercel/README.md

To configure this adapter, pass an object to the `vercel()` function call in `astro.config.mjs`:

### Web Analytics

**Type:** `VercelWebAnalyticsConfig`<br>
**Available for:** Serverless, Edge, Static<br>
**Added in:** `@astrojs/vercel@3.8.0`

You can enable [Vercel Web Analytics](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/analytics) by setting `webAnalytics: { enabled: true }`. This will inject Vercel’s tracking scripts into all of your pages.

> Alternatively, you can also pass [configuration options](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/analytics/package) (except functions like `beforeSend`) via the `config` property inside `webAnalytics`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also pass [Vercel's analytics configuration options](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/analytics/package) `mode` and `debug` via the `config` property inside `webAnalytics`.
```
- Checking on "alternatively" because I wouldn't think that passing an additional config option is an *alternative* to enabling `webAnalytics`? Should this perhaps be "Additionally" (or, nothing at all, since there's already an "also"?)
- Following that link, there really are only three config options mentioned, so assuming that's all there is (?) it I think we can just state the two which *can* be passed here. Then, there is a section below for how to handle `beforeSend`.

Author: Thanks for the callout, you're right. I've updated the copy!

export default defineConfig({
  output: 'server',
  adapter: vercel({
    webAnalytics: {
      enabled: true,
    },
  }),
});
```

#### `beforeSend`

> Since functions can't be passed down via `astro.config.mjs`, you need to export the `beforeSend` function in a separate file inside your root called `vercel-web-analytics.ts`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should tell users about our design decisions. We should just tell them "that's how you use this hook/function".

Author: Makes sense. Updated!

If you're not using TypeScript, you can define the function inside `vercel-web-analytics.js`.

> ```js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```ts
```

// vercel-web-analytics.ts
import type { VercelWebAnalyticsBeforeSend } from '@astrojs/vercel';

export const beforeSend: VercelWebAnalyticsBeforeSend = (event) => {
    // Ignore all events that have a `/private` inside the URL
    if (event.url.includes('/private')) {
      return null;
    }
    return event;
  }
}
```

> ````js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

export default defineConfig({
  output: 'server',
  adapter: vercel({
    webAnalytics: {
      enabled: true,
    },
  }),
});
```

#### `beforeSend`

> To define the `beforeSend` function, you need to create a separate file inside your root called `vercel-web-analytics.ts`.
> If you're not using TypeScript, you can define the function inside `vercel-web-analytics.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`beforeSend` is a function that can modify analytics event data before it's sent to Vercel.

Define this function in a separate file at the root of your project called `vercel-web-analytics.ts` (or `vercel-web-analytics.js` if you're not using TypeScript).
```

You've said in the section above not to pass `beforeSend` as a config option. Does this mean that simply having this file at the root of your project is enough? The Vercel adapter will automatically find it and use it? Is there anything else that needs to happen other than creating this file?

Author: Exactly, the user just needs to create the file and export the `beforeSend` function there
